---Evolution of Technology---
Back then, technology was primitive and we didn't have a lot of data. We used to
memorize phone numbers, and use floppy disks. Now, almost everything has data
and/or is connected to the internet. The evolution of technology has generated
a lot of data.

IoT (or internet of things) is basically just the networks and devices that all
contribute to the large amounts of data that are created. It's crazy, but the
amount of data that's made in a year is in the zettabytes. A zettabyte is a lot
of data, and it's like 50 zettabytes. With each incoming year, data is only
going to increase. There is an evergrowing need for data science as time goes
on.

Social media is a very large contributor to data. People doing things on social
media and loving it so much really does generate a lot of data.

There are even more things that generate data. Most things are done online now,
like education, transactions, buying things. Healthcare has data. Banking and
retail have data.

---Walmart example---
Let's see how Walmart uses data science to grow their business.
Walmart generates a lot of data, specifically to understand their customers better.
If a customer buys pop-tarts, then they are more likely to buy cookies too. 

One example is across all Walmart stores, it is noticed that a particular cookie brand
is making great sales. However, in two locations, there isn't a sales AT ALL. This is
investigated and it is found that they don't even have any of those cookies in stock.
This is then solved, and they prevent any loss of sales due to this stocking issue.

Another example would be if through data science Walmart found out that people really
liked strawberry pop-tarts right before a hurricane would occur. Correlations like this
wouldn't be known without something that sifts through data.

Walmart could use social media to gather data about the likes and dislikes of people.
If people on Facebook really like cake pops and are posting about it, then Walmart would
increase their stock of it.


--What is data science?---
It is the process of extracting knowledge and insights from data by using scientific
methods. When a data scientist is provided with a problem, they become investigators
and try to decode any patterns that they see within data and bring them to the surface
to increase sales.

In data science, heavy amounts of math will be needed because in order to decode patterns
in data, you may need to develop a mathematical model and have equations that interpret
data. It's not just statistics. They use technology to uncover these questions and patterns,
so they need to be proficient in python, SQL, R, & sass. They are good at business relations,
as a business could give their dataset to a data scientist and their job would be to uncover
where things are going wrong, and any good patterns.

---Data science skill set----
1. Statistics. This is how you will make decisions and understand probabilities of data. 

2. Programming languages. You'll need to know statistical languages like python and database
querying languages like SQL. Python is loved because of it's packages, you don't have to code
up some algorithm, you can just download a package and run it.

3. Data extraction and processing. Data can be from multiple sources, like mySQL database or mongo
database or wherever. The goal is to extract this stuff and put it into one proper place to view it
and make moves on it.

4. Data wrangling and exploration. This is about cleaning the data. This is about managing when
data sets have missing, null, or inconsistent values or gaps. Exploration is the creative part
where the data is ready to look at so you can find patterns and conclusions.

5. Machine learning. This comes in handy when you are working at a company with large amounts
of data, or the product is data driven like Netflix or google maps. You cannot process these
large amounts of data without machine learning algorithms. This is a very required skill to 
becoming a data scientist, because mostly every company has unfathomable amounts of data. You
will be asked about machine learning algorithms in interviews.

6. Big data processing frameworks. So much data that you can't really process it, so you need
frameworks like Spark and Hadoop.

7. Data visualization. This is the end product when you need to communicate your findings from
the data you analyzed. Putting them in appealing formats.


---Data science Job Roles----
There are many job roles for data science, since so many companies have data and there is just
a lot to do.